In this video we are going to implement Spring Data Repositories.
Now Spring Data is really a family of projects. So we're going to be looking at Spring Data JPA specifically
which is made to work with Hibernate.
Now Spring Data is a very cool project and really really alleviates a lot of coding that you have to
do around database operations.
So it implements a repository pattern.
It was originally if I remember correctly it was originally proposed by Martin Fowler to use data repository.
So it's a competing pattern to data access objects is something you might be familiar if you're
used to writing JEE type stuff. Repositories is a slightly different pattern where you have a repository
object that is responsible for your persistence and query operation.
So I actually when I first started using it and it was a little foreign to me but now I have grown to
like the pattern really from its simplicity because it is a very simple pattern to implement. In Spring
Data JPA, what it is doing on underneath the covers is taking care of all the hibernate commands, all
the transactional commands, just about everything that you have to do normally because there is a lot
of ceremonial code.
If you've ever written JDBC code directly, you can understand how much ceremonial code there is.
And this really abstracts it and allows us as developers to go in and just focus on providing business
functionality. We are just going to scratch the surface of the capabilities of Spring Data JPA in
this video. Coming up in the course, we are going to get into a lot more to do with Spring Data JPA because
it is a very robust project and you get a lot of value out of it.
But here we're just going to go through and set up Spring Data JPA repositories for our two books and
authors objects and you're going to be at the end of video.
I mean that's all I had to do.
Yes, that is all you have to do here to get up and going with Spring Data JPA. And in future videos, we
will be working more and more with the repositories we set up inside this video.
Let's go ahead and implement our repository.
So I'm going to come in here and I going to create a new package.
I'm just going to call repositories. What I want to do is come up here and I'm going to create a
new Java class.
This is gonna be an interface and I would say author repository like so and we will add that and to Git for
your reference. We are going to extend CrudRepository and that takes to generics. The first property
is gonna be the type and the second is going to be the ID value.
So go ahead and inspect author real quick. And just remember that we want author and then we have
the long.
So the box primitive a long.
So let's go ahead and add that now.
And that's all we have to do to set up a CrudRepository.
Now what this is going to give us.
Let's take a quick look at the CrudRepository.
So this is gonna extend out the repository from a Crud
Repository. We are going to get save, save all,
find by ID, exist by ID, find all, find by ID, account, delete by ID, delete by entity, delete all from
a list and then delete everything in the repository.
This also extends out repository as well.
And that doesn't have any specific methods that it's calling for. And what's going to happen at runtime
Spring is going to provide the implementation for this.
So we are just providing the interface. Spring Data JPA is going to provide the implementation for us
and it will implement all those methods for us to work with.
So let's also set this up for book so new Java class interface. We'll call this a book repository.
That's going to also extend out CrudRepository and that's gonna be book and long
like so.
We want our book not out of Java AWT. Definitely not that one.
And so that that will set up the book repository.
So at this point we've done everything we need to to configure two repositories for our author entity
and our book entity.